---
layout: post
title:  "So, You Wanna Be Starting Something?"
author: matt
categories: [ Events, Games, Gaming, Gaming Culture, Conventions ]
featured: true
---
<section name="d9cc" class="section section--body section--first"><div class="section-divider"><hr class="section-divider"></div><div class="section-content"><div class="section-inner sectionLayout--insetColumn"><blockquote name="ebb0" id="ebb0" class="graf graf--blockquote graf-after--h3">The last two events we’ve run have involved someone new coming up to us and saying they’ve been inspired to run their own convention in their local area. The basics are simple, and all we have time for this week, but here they are for anyone out there wanting to make a go of it.</blockquote><p name="ba94" id="ba94" class="graf graf--p graf-after--blockquote">Start by engaging your local community, asking them if they’d be interested in a convention nearby, what they’d love to see included, and (crucially) if they’d be prepared to organise or run part of it with you. Reach out to online communities as well, in case they contain local members, or remote people happy to travel. If the interest is there, it’s time to start planning.</p><p name="4b51" id="4b51" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p">Look at the team you’ve assembled and assess what you can achieve. How long will the event be? When should it start and end? Which venues are suitable and affordable (assuming this isn’t just a private gathering of known acquaintances at someone’s house — which is a totally valid place to start, but you might want to meet strangers in a neutral, public space for safety)? If you are hiring a space, money is the big complicator now. You need to assess each potential venue in terms of outlay-versus-capacity-versus-ticket prices (if you want your money back). Some conventions are free to enter, but charge for RPG sessions or library passes. Ours charges general admission but almost everything else is free once you’re inside. Find a model which can sustain itself, but be ready to risk a loss on your first one (We were saved by generous contributions to our voluntary donation bucket at Ettin Con Zero).</p><p name="87c5" id="87c5" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p">Speaking of risk, check what the venue’s insurance covers, and liability you need to assume in case of any accidents at the event. You don’t want anyone in a bad physical, legal or financial situation. Care for your attendees, your staff and yourself.</p><p name="0409" id="0409" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p">The next thing to assess is scheduling. When are competing conventions or adjacent events in your area? Give everyone room to have their own success. Check the venue availability and book it, then it’s time to start promoting and organising the finer details.</p><p name="3293" id="3293" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p">Promoting on social media doesn’t need to cost anything. There are lots of free, user-friendly tools online for making graphics like posters and flyers if you don’t have access to a graphic designer. Tell everyone about your event to get the word spreading to their friends. Start recruiting GMs to run RPGs if you like that sort of thing. Find a way to reward them if you can, even if it’s just free entry after a certain threshold of hours worked. Same goes for your team of volunteers to staff the door and any other stations you might need.</p><p name="f337" id="f337" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p">If your initial scope is small, you can probably handle tickets at the door, but if you want the ease, convenience and peace of mind available via online presales, I recommend <a href="http://TryBooking.com" data-href="http://TryBooking.com" class="markup--anchor markup--p-anchor" rel="noopener" target="_blank">TryBooking.com</a>. I learned about them through the Society for Creative Anachronism, and their fees are as low as their features are rich. <a href="http://Eventbrite.com" data-href="http://Eventbrite.com" class="markup--anchor markup--p-anchor" rel="noopener" target="_blank">Eventbrite.com</a> is great, too, with a few more features, but the fees are much higher.</p><p name="96f8" id="96f8" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p">That’s probably enough for this week, but if interest is there, I’ll talk about managing timetabling and player registration next, unless you have any better ideas. Reach out to me via <a href="mailto:admin@ettincon.org" data-href="mailto:admin@ettincon.org" class="markup--anchor markup--p-anchor" target="_blank">admin@ettincon.org</a> with any questions or topics you’d like covered.</p><p name="e34d" id="e34d" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p graf--trailing"><em class="markup--em markup--p-em">-Matt Horam, Con Org for </em><strong class="markup--strong markup--p-strong"><em class="markup--em markup--p-em">Ettin Con</em></strong><em class="markup--em markup--p-em">.</em></p></div></div></section><section name="a4e4" class="section section--body section--last"><div class="section-divider"><hr class="section-divider"></div><div class="section-content"><div class="section-inner sectionLayout--insetColumn"><blockquote name="b256" id="b256" class="graf graf--blockquote graf--leading graf--trailing"><strong class="markup--strong markup--blockquote-strong"><em class="markup--em markup--blockquote-em">NOTE</em></strong><em class="markup--em markup--blockquote-em">: Every process we’ve established (and every system we’ve implemented) can be handed to you in the form of a white-label website-and-print solution, fully documented, configured and installed to taste, for a donation to our association. I call it “Shoestring” because it is a series of knots and cords connecting systems on a tiny budget to get you up and running. You can learn more at </em><a href="https://EttinCon.org/shoestring" data-href="https://EttinCon.org/shoestring" class="markup--anchor markup--blockquote-anchor" rel="noopener nofollow noopener" target="_blank"><strong class="markup--strong markup--blockquote-strong">EttinCon.org/shoestring</strong></a></blockquote></div></div></section>