---
layout: post
title:  "Announcements"
author: matt
categories: [ Events, Games, Gaming, Gaming Culture, Conventions ]
image: assets/images/6.jpg
featured: true
---

<section name="9710" class="section section--body section--first"><div class="section-divider"><hr class="section-divider"></div><div class="section-content"><div class="section-inner sectionLayout--insetColumn"><blockquote name="3689" id="3689" class="graf graf--blockquote graf-after--h3">Anything you set out to do generally takes X units of time longer than you expect. This doesn’t really seem to change over the years, so be prepared for it. You might manage to have a meeting about choosing the date and venue but need to wait another week for other parties to confirm that it’s alright to book. You might find that the booking form is on the blink, and you need to email it through instead. Then you might find that other random events will stretch a wait of two days into…another week..then another…BUT YOU’LL MAKE IT! Eventually, you can announce the venue as confirmed, start doing the rounds with sponsors and final poster art, update all the profile pictures, headers, preview images, publish event pages, set dates for ticket sales, and the like. PHEW.</blockquote><p name="9bcc" id="9bcc" class="graf graf--p graf-after--blockquote">That’s where we are right now. I’m typing this knowing that IN THEORY we will hear back about our booking today (<em class="markup--em markup--p-em">in a few hours, It’ll be deferred to next week, I’ll come back to this post and change my wording, which seems to reinforce the point</em>) and get all the other wheels spinning. We came to the conclusion during our planning meeting that although the desired-by-all-and-technically-feasible two-day model is finally in sight, there’s only one real thing holding us back from pulling that pin, and it’s that <strong class="markup--strong markup--p-strong">we need to double our staff</strong>. We’ve modelled the timetabling, the logistics, the costs and how they could be managed in terms of ticket prices for single days or the whole weekend, how to manage available seating, and everything else. It’s all there, waiting…but we would realistically need more people to cover more shifts to ensure everyone has a safe, organised, fun time.</p><p name="c4af" id="c4af" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p">Finding those people takes time, so we’re giving ourselves another ten months to find those people (or let them find us). We’re looking at a 12hr Saturday and an 8 hour Sunday, requiring the usual 4hr shifts from Saturday volunteers to earn a ticket, and ~3hrs for the Sunday. Some of us could pull double shifts, obviously, but the key is coverage, and we need more than we’ve been managing with the single-day model. If you’re reading this and feeling tired of the repetitive theme, so are we! Please consider if you could find a few hours to work for us in exchange for a ticket to enjoy the rest of the day. The more people step up, the more likely we can finally achieve that dream goal of a weekend-long event. <strong class="markup--strong markup--p-strong">Just go to </strong><a href="https://EttinCon.org/volunteer" data-href="https://EttinCon.org/volunteer" class="markup--anchor markup--p-anchor" rel="noopener" target="_blank"><strong class="markup--strong markup--p-strong">EttinCon.org/volunteer</strong></a><strong class="markup--strong markup--p-strong">.</strong></p><p name="564d" id="564d" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p">Anyway, back to the nuts and bolts of the thing. We’ve got a date for Winter, so while we’re in the middle ground between the venue booking request, confirmation, announcement and ticket sales, we can set up our forms and spreadsheets in readiness to begin accepting game pitches to schedule as soon as the venue confirms. It’s my first time handing the scheduling process to other staff (I’ve been handling it myself since 2015) so it will be a learning experience in terms of how user-friendly the tools, procedures and instructions have become over the past year of developing the <a href="https://EttinCon.org/shoestring" data-href="https://EttinCon.org/shoestring" class="markup--anchor markup--p-anchor" rel="noopener" target="_blank"><strong class="markup--strong markup--p-strong">Shoestring</strong></a> system. The same Google spreadsheet which receives the game pitches in one tab has a tab for publishing games onto the website (game listing &amp; timetable), as well as another tab receiving availability updates as each player reserves their seat. The availability data feeds back into the game listing and timetable so that everyone knows the current status of each game. Simpler than it sounds, but getting there has taken a couple of years learning and changing how we do things.</p><p name="5135" id="5135" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p">There are small details to handle at the outset: What information do I need about the game someone wants to run at our convention? What parameters do we set in terms of acceptable pitches? What information do we need from players? What information do GMs, demonstrators and players need from us about managing attendance, cancellations, and general conduct? Some of our answers might help you determine your own.</p><p name="24a1" id="24a1" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p">For GMs &amp; demonstrators: We need contact info (public and private), game details (system, premise, content, expectations, min/max players), preferences in terms of time and location, and a promotional image. Not too hard. GMs have been receiving guidelines from us via email in terms of how to manage their attendance using online tools, but we’re stepping that up this time. We now have the beginnings of a <a href="https://EttinCon.org/GM" data-href="https://EttinCon.org/GM" class="markup--anchor markup--p-anchor" rel="noopener" target="_blank"><strong class="markup--strong markup--p-strong">GM page on our site</strong></a> to encourage the first 5 minutes of everyone’s session to cover the most important things about playing nicely (and safely) with strangers in a public setting. If you have any suggestions to improve it, please get in touch.</p><p name="325f" id="325f" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p">For Players: We need to collect contact info in case of emergencies, as well as any comments/questions they might have beyond that which they feel comfortable asking the GM prior to the session. Players need to know how to register, how to cancel as soon as they discover they won’t be able to attend, and possibly how to check-in at the venue before the game as a courteous way to put the GM at ease, or at least give them the time to find replacement players. We’re putting all these instructions into a <em class="markup--em markup--p-em">Player Information Area</em> to advise players, most likely emailed to each registrant as well.</p><p name="1952" id="1952" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p">From there, scheduling is as breezy as it could be, until the next round of improvements. Plan these things out as early as you can, because the more your event grows, the larger quantities of small speedbumps can wreck your suspension.</p><p name="a819" id="a819" class="graf graf--p graf-after--p graf--trailing"><em class="markup--em markup--p-em">-Matt Horam, Con Org for </em><strong class="markup--strong markup--p-strong"><em class="markup--em markup--p-em">Ettin Con</em></strong><em class="markup--em markup--p-em">.</em></p></div></div></section><section name="a4e4" class="section section--body section--last"><div class="section-divider"><hr class="section-divider"></div><div class="section-content"><div class="section-inner sectionLayout--insetColumn"><blockquote name="b256" id="b256" class="graf graf--blockquote graf--leading graf--trailing">Do you have a topic you’d like to see covered in future posts? Send an email via <a href="mailto://admin@EttinCon.org" data-href="mailto://admin@EttinCon.org" class="markup--anchor markup--blockquote-anchor" rel="noopener" target="_blank"><strong class="markup--strong markup--blockquote-strong">admin@EttinCon.org</strong></a>.<em class="markup--em markup--blockquote-em"> </em>Your event might have different requirements for registration and scheduling, but it’s nothing you can’t handle with the right tools. Nowadays, there are so many online applications to leverage, even if it means a little custom work to tie it all together. If you are facing a hurdle and can’t see the path ahead, throw us your problem and we’ll take a crack at helping you solve it.</blockquote></div></div></section>